Docs:/streams: try to explain streams lifecycle (#1736)
coreos/fedora-coreos-tracker: stream-tooling.md

## Introduction

> FCOS have multiple streams:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FCOS has multiple streams:
```

- Koji tags: a way to track packages built in Koji. Koji is capable of creating yum repos from such tags. RPM builds may be "tagged" in so that the next repo regeneration includes it.
- [dist-git](http://src.fedoraproject.org/): git where RPM spec files are kept and Koji builds source from.

## Existing streams

**Mechanical** streams are not curated; they're automated nightly snapshots of the underlying repos.  They source their RPMs from the regular Fedora repos:
1. **rawhide** <- fedora rawhide repos
2. **branched** <- fedora-branched when a branch exists, otherwise tracks **rawhide**

**Production** streams are intended for production use.  They source their RPMs from a _single_ Koji tag, `coreos-pool`, from which we create a yum repo:
1. **next** <- coreos-pool
2. **testing** <- coreos-pool
3. **stable** <- coreos-pool

> **Development** streams are nightly snapshots of content headed for the production streams.  There's one development stream at the base of each promotion path; thus, **stable** doesn't have one because it promotes from **testing** instead.  **next-devel** will only be maintained in the periods where **next** is independent of **testing** (when a fedora beta is released, **next-devel** moves to the beta content).  Development streams source their RPMs from a _single_ Koji tag, `coreos-pool`, from which we create a yum repo:

Author: Some clarification here : https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-pipeline/tree/main/next-devel

The lockfiles produced from the automatic snapshot will never be hand-modified, and in the next/testing/stable branches will never be modified at all except during promotions.  Instead, pins (to older NEVRAs) and updates (to newer ones) will be hand-maintained in the Git branches in a separate lockfile that overrides the autogenerated ones.  These overrides will be the major distinction between the mechanical refs and the "curated" (development/production) refs.  Each curated branch will have one override file, which can carry both CPU-architecture-independent and architecture-specific overrides.

### Streams Lifecycle

#### Regular State
Although all the streams are built from scratch (there is no tangible relations between streams) here is how the RPMs flow towards stable:

> The **testing-devel** Stream is built daily with the content of the `fedora-update` repository. If the build successfully pass the tests,

Author: https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/fedora-repositories/#the-updates-repository

the resulting lockfiles are committed to the **testing-devel** branch of `fedora-coreos-config`.
Any new RPM receive the `coreos-pool` koji tag.

For a release (approximately every two weeks), someone manually triggers the `bump-lockfile` job to propagate the **testing** content to the **stable** branch.

> The **testing-devel** content is propagated to the **testing** and **next** streams. Theses images are built from the `coreos-pool` yum repository.

Reviewer 2: Is it not `testing-devel` -> `next` -> `testing` -> `stable`? Reading this I feel you're saying that `testing-devel` goes directly to both ( `testing` <- `testing-devel` -> `next`).

Author: when Fedora is not branched (right now), testing and next are the same .

Looking at [testing commit history](https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-config/commits/testing/) : it's at [testing devel e13ff7d](https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-config/commit/e13ff7d3a6f743f2132153b8f078cbb95ccc8d62) 

Looking at [next commit history](https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-config/commits/next/) : it's at [testing devel e13ff7d](https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-config/commit/e13ff7d3a6f743f2132153b8f078cbb95ccc8d62)

#### When Fedora Branched exist

> Before every released, there is a stabilisation period. A branch is created from rawhide, the next release enters it's [branched](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/releases/branched/) state.

Reviewer 2: nit-pick: Before every `release`, ...

> Before every released, there is a stabilisation period. A branch is created from rawhide, the next release enters it's [branched](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/releases/branched/) state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before every release, there is a stabilisation period. A branch is created from rawhide, the next release enters its [branched](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/releases/branched/) state.
```

During that time, the **next-devel** stream is enabled.
The **branched** stream is built daily with the content of the `fedora-branched` repository. If the build successfully pass the tests,
the resulting lockfiles are committed to the **next-devel** branch of `fedora-coreos-config`.
**next-devel** is then built daily.
When the branched release of fedora is promoted to `beta`, the **next-devel** content is promoted to **next** during the release process, as described above.

#### Rawhide

> The **rawhide** stream is daily built from the `fedora rawhide packages. When there is no `fedora-branched` release, the **branched** stream mirrors

Reviewer 2: nit-pick: missing backtick.

> **rawhide**. This stream allow us to monitor changes early and react accordingly. The results are not used in any lockfiles.

Reviewer 2: That's interesting... honestly, this is the first time I'm considering the lifecycle as a whole. I feel like a chart would help clarify things described above ;)
